# My Kaggle plans

Due to my lack of practical ML skills, I feel uncomfortable and 
self-inefficient at work. And I know no better place to gain 
experience in ML, than Kaggle.com.

Since I getting a master's degree in FinTech and work part-time as 
Junior DS, I don't have enough time to spend on Kaggle (however, 
if you have suggestions I'll gladly accept it). So I need to develop 
a reasonable strategy that allows me to learn something new from 
Kaggle competitions and yet be not so a full-time activity that 
burns me out completely and makes me hate DS and programming.

_Actually about that. Check out this site to check you burn out index: [burnoutindex](https://burnoutindex.org/)_

## Idea #1
I cannot participate in ongoing competitions. I feel like it will put 
pressure on me. Another reason is those past competitions have great 
notebooks from which it is easy to find new ideas, methods, and tricks.

## Idea #2 
I usually find any ML task interesting to work on so choosing the 
competition in which I want to try myself is hard. I decided to choose 
the most related one to the work I'm doing at the moment. This should 
deal with two problems. First, I can pick up some new useful tricks 
and start using it at work as fast as possible. Second, I will be able 
to deepen my knowledge in this area of ML and packages I use 
(practice makes perfect).

## Idea #3
After a full day of codding at work, it is hard to make yourself code 
a little bit more at home. At least for me. _You can call me lazy. I am =)_

Some Kaggle masters advise you to try and write the first submission 
completely by yourself, I don't feel the motivation to do that. 
It is easier for me to me read something. And reading notebooks 
and playing with code from it is partly reading. So... I know that 
starting from getting to know someone else's methods is not AS effective 
as diving into the task, making some assumptions, checking it, checking 
it again and so on and so on. But it is more effective, than doing 
completely nothing.

And I guess you should start with something.