# Reading "Using Docker"

As I told in the previous post, I'm currently reading a book about docker. But what's Docker? Imagine that you have a script. To code, you installed complier, some libraries, maybe IDE. You can run the script whenever you want, it simply works. But then your friend asks you to install the same script on his computer. You install the "same" compiler, libraries and it doesn't work. Why?! Maybe there is a different version of the compiler or some particular library has been updated. Maybe your friend has a different OS on his computer. There could be hundreds of reasons why your script does work on your computer and doesn't work on someone else's. It is called [dependency hell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_hell).

Now you may think that it would be cool if could just copy your OS, libraries and etc (it is called environment) and install all this along with your script. That could be done and you don't even need Docker for it! The solution is to use a virtual machine! But it makes you run the whole OS inside your installed OS. That's just a waste of your machine resources. Maybe if you could have some lightweight OS, where you can install all dependencies for your script. And that is why Docker was invented. 

## Summary

### DockerHub
Docker has built-in ability to connect to Docker Hub where you can find hundreds of images you can pull on your computer and use freely for your apps. So, you don't need to understand how to install PostgreSQL, just run 

```bash
docker pull postges
docker run postgres
```
and you have running postgres database at your command. But to make it useful, you need to expose ports and set up a user and do some finetuning. But it is not as difficult as setting up the whole database from scratch.

### Dockerfile
Another powerful idea is to write Dockerfile for every app you write. This way anyone who has Docker installed can run your app. In Dockerfile you specify files your app needs to run, libraries it needs to install. That seems easy enough once you start using it.  

But it also has its tricky part: ENTRYPOINT and CMD. I'll try to explain the difference here.
CMD specifies what command to run at the start of the container. If this command has some attributes you need to specify it for CMD. ENTRYPOINT also specifies what command to run at the start, but all attributes you need to set up every time you start a new container. 

```bash
docker run myapp bash python -m run # no CMD and no ENTRYPOINT
docker run myapp python -m run # ENTRYPOINT
docker run myapp # CMD
```

### Image vs Container
As you may have noticed I said the words "image" and "container". What's that?
A container is a running program, to put it simply. You may not upload it or copy it to another computer. And an image is a program itself, you may push it to DockerHub and then say friend to pull it to his computer if he/she wants to run it.

## Next
[Часть 2](https://ikintosh.github.io/2020/04/03/docker_2.html)
[Часть 3](https://ikintosh.github.io/2020/04/11/docker_3.html)
[Часть 4](https://ikintosh.github.io/2020/05/02/docker_4.html)
[Часть 5](https://ikintosh.github.io/2020/06/04/docker_5.html)
